README.md, before:

# NeoGalaga

🚀 **NeoGalaga** is a futuristic reimagining of the classic arcade space shooter *Galaga*.  
Developed in Python using the [Arcade](https://api.arcade.academy/en/latest/) library, this project serves as an educational demonstration of core **Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)** principles: encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction.

---

## 🎯 Project Goals

- Build a complete 2D game using Python and Arcade
- Apply and demonstrate OOP fundamentals:
  - 🔒 Encapsulation
  - 🧬 Inheritance
  - 🎭 Polymorphism
  - 🧠 Abstraction
- Use modular and scalable code architecture
- Design a clean, futuristic aesthetic with modern effects

---

## 🛠 Technologies Used

- [Python 3.10+](https://www.python.org/)
- [Arcade Library](https://api.arcade.academy/en/latest/)
- Good practices in Object-Oriented Programming

---

## 📁 Project Structure

NeoGalaga/ ├── main.py # Game entry point ├── settings.py # Global configuration │ ├── core/ # Core game logic │ └── game.py # (to be created) │ ├── entities/ # Game entities (player, enemies, bullets) │ ├── player.py # Player class with movement logic │ ├── enemy.py # (to be created) │ └── bullet.py # Bullet class fired by the player │ ├── assets/ # Visual and audio assets │ ├── images/ │ └── sounds/ │ ├── utils/ # Helper functions (optional) │ └── math_helpers.py # (to be created) │ ├── .gitignore # Git ignored files ├── .editorconfig # Code formatting rules ├── LICENSE # Project license (MIT) └── README.md # Project documentation

---

## ▶️ How to Run the Game

1. Clone the repository:

```

git clone https://github.com/cristianjhd92/NeoGalaga.git
cd NeoGalaga

```

2. Install Arcade:

```

pip install arcade

```

3. Run the game:

```

python main.py

```

---

## 📌 Current Status

-✅ Project structure initialized

-✅ Player sprite added and integrated with keyboard movement

-✅ Bullet system implemented (player can shoot with spacebar)

-🔧 In development: enemy behavior and wave generation

---

## ✨ Features to Be Added

- Enemy classes and attack patterns

- Collision detection (bullets vs enemies)

- Power-ups and special weapons

- Scoring system and UI

- Sound effects and background music

- Game over screen and level progression

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
Developed by Cristian J. H. D.
GitHub: @cristianjhd92

Commit message:

Update README to include collision detection between bullets and enemies

README.md, after:

# NeoGalaga

🚀 **NeoGalaga** is a futuristic reimagining of the classic arcade space shooter *Galaga*.  
Developed in Python using the [Arcade](https://api.arcade.academy/en/latest/) library, this project serves as an educational demonstration of core **Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)** principles: encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction.

---

## 🎯 Project Goals

- Build a complete 2D game using Python and Arcade
- Apply and demonstrate OOP fundamentals:
  - 🔒 Encapsulation
  - 🧬 Inheritance
  - 🎭 Polymorphism
  - 🧠 Abstraction
- Use modular and scalable code architecture
- Design a clean, futuristic aesthetic with modern effects

---

## 🛠 Technologies Used

- [Python 3.10+](https://www.python.org/)
- [Arcade Library](https://api.arcade.academy/en/latest/)
- Good practices in Object-Oriented Programming

---

## 📁 Project Structure

NeoGalaga/ ├── main.py # Game entry point and main loop ├── settings.py # Global settings (screen, colors, speeds) │ ├── core/ # Core game logic (to be expanded) │ └── game.py # (to be created) │ ├── entities/ # Game entities (sprites) │ ├── player.py # Player class with movement logic │ ├── bullet.py # Bullet class fired by the player │ └── enemy.py # Enemy class with basic formation │ ├── assets/ # Game assets │ ├── images/ # (future sprite images) │ └── sounds/ # (future sound effects) │ ├── utils/ # Helper modules │ └── math_helpers.py # (to be created) │ ├── .gitignore # Git ignored files and folders ├── .editorconfig # Code style rules for consistency ├── LICENSE # Project license (MIT) └── README.md # Project documentation

---

## ▶️ How to Run the Game

1. Clone the repository:

```

git clone https://github.com/cristianjhd92/NeoGalaga.git
cd NeoGalaga

```

2. Install Arcade:

```

pip install arcade

```

3. Run the game:

```

python main.py

```

---

## 📌 Current Status

-✅ Project structure initialized

-✅ Player sprite added and integrated with keyboard movement

-✅ Bullet system implemented (player can shoot with spacebar)

-✅ Basic enemy class and formation displayed on screen

-✅ Collision detection between bullets and enemies

-🔧 In development: enemy movement and behavior patterns

---

## ✨ Features to Be Added

- Enemy classes and attack patterns

- Collision detection (bullets vs enemies)

- Power-ups and special weapons

- Scoring system and UI

- Sound effects and background music

- Game over screen and level progression

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
Developed by Cristian J. H. D.
GitHub: @cristianjhd92
